@node Integration with Legacy Planetary Intelligence Agency Technology
@chapter Integration with Legacy Planetary Intelligence Agency Technology

Due to a lack of funding, we have made use of Ghidra, a suite of reverse
engineering tools developed by the United States National Security Agency, for
reverse engineering the games and to automate the collection of addresses,
among other things.

@node FindFunctionForAllLevels
@section FindFunctionForAllLevels

Finds the addresses of a function in each level overlay, given the address of
the function in a single level overlay.

This script must be run on a file generated using the
@code{ImportLevelOverlay.java} script.

@node FindFunctionInCurrentProgramByHash
@section FindFunctionInCurrentProgramByHash

Finds a function in the current program given its full FID hash.

@node FindMemcardBranches
@section FindMemcardBranches

Finds relative branch instructions that can be modified to jump into a block of
data loaded from the memory card.

@node ImportLevelOverlays
@section ImportLevelOverlays

Imports all the level overlays from a build of the game into a single Ghidra
file as memory blocks in overlay spaces, and marks up the @code{startlevel}
functions as well as functions referenced from the @code{lvl.*vtbl} sections
appropriately.

Instructions:

@enumerate
@item Unpack the game using wrench (0.4 or newer, or the latest unstable build).
@item Import the boot ELF, but don't run auto analysis.
@item Run the script, select the directory containing the newly unpacked asset
bank e.g. rac_sces_509_16.
@item Run auto analysis.

@end enumerate

@node MarkupLvlVtblFunctions
@section MarkupLvlVtblFunctions

Marks up functions referenced by the @code{lvl.*vtbl} sections in the same way
the @code{ImportLevelOverlays} script does.
